# Assignment-Project-4-SPI Match's score prediction
 5th assignment of EECS 731 Intro to Data Science -  World Wide Products Inc.

 Prerequisites
 Python 3.7.3, Jupyter Notebook, Pandas Library, Numpy Library & sklearn Library

 Introduction:
 In this project, we are going to transform the dataset of World Wide Products by using feature engineering. We are going to modify the dataset into a new dataset that has the meaningful data to fit various Forecasting models so we can make prediction demand of products for the future time period. We have 5 4 features- Product_Code, Warehouse, Product_Category, Date and a target value which is Order_Demand. Product_Code is the ID of the product, Warehouse is one of the 4 Warehouses where the product is getting demanded from, Product_Category is the category of product which is also coded, Date is the information of a particular day, and Order_Demand has numerical values which represent the demand of a product on a particular date.


 Idea:
 We need to predict the demand of products in this project so that the manufacturer can get an idea about how much should the product be manufactured based on future demands. To predict the demand of individual product, first, we will be dropping the columns which are not much useful in doing so which are Warehouse and Product_Category. We will be using the features Product_Code and Date. Order_Demand will be our two target. We will fit the ARIMA Forecasting Model model with the features and then test them to predict the demand for the future.

 Process:
 - Download the data from https://www.kaggle.com/felixzhao/productdemandforecasting
 - Load the dataset into Pandas dataframe from Historical Product Demand.csv
 - Drop the columns that are not significant in predicting the demand of the products.
 - Drop the rows with Nan(missing values) as they won't help in achieving our goal and also, they will create discrepancies in prediction.
 - Transform the Date format into desired format to feed the model.
 - Get the average per day demand of products in a month.
 - Pivot the data for products so we can get demand of a particular product on a day.
 - Initialize, train, and predict the demand for one year using ARIMA Forecasting model.
 - Calculate the RMSE value and plot the predicted demand with the actual demand.

 Result:
 We have successfully used the exploratory data analysis technique to get the idea of the data and remove insignificant data from the original dataset. We have used feature engineering to transform and make a final meaningful dataset for our particular goal. We successfully implemented the ARIMA Forecasting model to predict the demand of an individual product based on various features. We have got an RMSE value of 405.751 generated by the predictions of 12 months of demand by using the demand of last 4 years.


 Built With:
 Jupyter Notebook
 Python 3.7.3
 Pandas
 NumPy

 Authors:
 Ashwin Rathore

 License:
 This project is created for Course EECS 731 Assignment for University of Kansas.

 Acknowledgments:
 https://www.kaggle.com/felixzhao/productdemandforecasting
